@def title="Helpful Resources"

# Helpful Resources

As I said above, I taught myself how to use Julia. What that actually translates to is that I've _learned_ from an online community of generous teachers who publish many of their educational materials for free. Here's a list, in no particular order, of resources that I cannot recommend enough to anyone interested in Julia programming.

- [_Julia 1.x Documentation_](https://docs.julialang.org/en/v1/).
  - These are the `docs` for the Julia programming language generated by -- get this -- the Julia programming language! One of the nicest features that Julia offers are a set of first-class `docstring`s that document one's code as they write it. They are then searchable and can be used to generate really great documentation for projects. One can actually also leverage the `docstring`s as tests of their code to make sure the expected output is actually returned by the code in any examples. In this case, the Julia team has done a nice job integrating these features into the `Base` code as well, making sure the documentation is up-to-date and works.

- Tom Kwong. [_Hands-On Design Patterns and Best Practices with Julia: Proven solutions to common problems in software design for Julia 1.x_.](https://www.amazon.com/Hands-Design-Patterns-Julia-comprehensive/dp/183864881X) Packt Publishing, 2020.
  - Only Julia resource I've spent money on. Worth every penny and one of the few textbooks I've legitimately read cover-to-cover (he's a very fast-paced writer despite the book being 500+ pages long). Kwong does an excellent job communicating why he, like most in the Julia community, consider the  multiple-dispatch paradigm superior to the traditional object-oriented paradigm in software design. He also has a plethora of hands-on examples showing how this is the case.

- Dabbling Doggo. [_julia for talented amateurs_.](https://www.youtube.com/c/juliafortalentedamateurs/about) Youtube Channel.
  - This YouTuber has inspired me a lot to continue with Julia and create tutorials of my own. They seem to be interested in learning all things Julia and make videos to document their own progress, including how to use Julia to make static websites like with one!

- [_Julia Discourse_](https://discourse.julialang.org/). JuliaLang.
  - Main discussion website for the Julia community. There is a lot of helpful forums, Q&A, and advertisements for various packages on this site.
  - Sometimes the discussions are a bit outdated since Julia is a really quickly developing language, but even then it can be interesting to see issues that people ran into and then how the community responded to help.